The Sathya Sai Seva Organization (known as Sathya Sai International Organization (SSIO)) is a non-denominational organisation that was founded in the 1960s by Sathya Sai Baba, an Indian mystic and religious figure.[1] The first Sai Centers were started in India under the name Sri Sathya Sai Seva Samithi.[2] The Sri Sathya Sai Seva Organization originated "to enable its members to undertake service activities as a means to spiritual advancement."[1] According to the Sathya Sai Organization, there are an estimated 1,200 Sathya Sai Baba Centers in 130 countries worldwide.[3] Its current chairperson is Dr Narendranath Reddy.

"The main objective of the Sathya Sai Organization," as Sathya Sai Baba states, "is to help man recognize the divinity that is inherent in him. So, your duty is to emphasize the One, to experience the One in all you do or speak. Do not give any importance to differences of religion or sect or status or color. Have the feeling of one-ness permeate every act of yours. Only those who do so have a place in this Organization; the rest can withdraw."[5][6]

The principal objectives of Sri Sathya Sai Seva Organisation are:

1. To help the individual[1]

    To be aware of the Divinity that is inherent in him and to conduct himself accordingly;
    To translate into practice in daily life, divine love and perfection; and therefore
    To fill one's life with joy, harmony, beauty, grace, human excellence and lasting happiness;

2. To ensure that all human relations are governed by the principles of Satya (Truth), Dharma (Right Conduct), Shanthi (Peace), Prema (Love) and Ahimsa (Non-violence).[1]

3. To make devotees more sincere and dedicated in the practice of their respective religions by understanding properly the true spirit of their religion.[1]

Sathya Sai Baba further explains the quality of service expected of the organization. "The Organisations named after Me are not to be used for publicising My Name, or creating a new cult around My worship. They must try to spread interest in japam (recitation of God's Name), dhyaanam (meditation) and other sadhanas (spiritual practices), which lead man Godward; they must demonstrate the joy derivable from bhajan (devotional group singing) and Naamasmarana (remembering God's Name), the Shanthi (peace) that one can draw from Sathsang (good company). They must render seva (service) to the helpless, the sick, the distressed, the illiterate and the needy. Their seva should not be exhibitionistic; it must seek no reward, not even gratitude or thanks from the recipients. Seva is sadhana (spiritual exercise), not a pastime of the rich and well placed. Each one must realize this truth."[7]














